---
title: "Building Back - Better?"
date: 2021-09-03T22:42:29-05:00
draft: false
---

It's no secret that I'm a bit lost these days. I could go into the boring details of my personal 
struggles and how I feel a bit lost searching for meaning in life, but we're here to talk about 
professional things. In a professional sense, I've lost my way a bit like Jesus lost his way in 
the desert. 

No, I didn't really read that passage in the bible, and no, I'm not suggesting the same moral of 
the story that a preacher would leave you with. To me, the story of Jesus in the desert is one 
of temptation, but also it is one of contemplation and reflection in the purest sense: the mind 
left to unwind without relationships getting in the way.

Jesus "became the Lord" via revelations in the desert, or whatever the religious people claim, 
but he couldn't have gotten there with others around him. He was tempted by "Satan", which were 
likely the negative thoughts in his head. 

I'm not sure why people don't go deeper here, but I think the story of Jesus in the desert is a 
story everyone goes through sometime in their life. We all have demons in our mind tempting us 
to do the things we know are possible whether or not they should be done. We could all kill 
someone, lie to our friends, be a slave to money, or end up resenting our children, but we hope 
that spiritually someone, God, or something will give us the strength to resist.

## Original Sin of the Developer

While we're on this religious kick and spiritual journey, I think it's time we talked about sin. 
We all sin in our personal lives, and professionally I don't think it's any different. Each of 
us has our own set of professional sins and some worse than others. However, I think the worst 
offenders are the ones who commit sin in the name of their "Professional Lord".  

These people give keynotes at conferences, get paid high salaries, are in demand for interviews 
and consultant gigs. They are the ones we call rock stars. What could their original sin be, you 
might ask?

> If you build it, they will come.

Each and everyone of the keynote speakers at a conference has likely built something to get them 
up on the stage. They likely will 

How can we as developers cleanse ourselves of that sin?

> If you listen, they will talk.
