---
title: "What Do You Want in a Job"
date: 2021-09-27T17:30:11-05:00
draft: true
---

I thought I knew the answers to these questions, but I feel at a loss to answer them now. I can 
list what I would have said in an interview years ago, but then I can hear myself criticizing my 
answer now before it even leaves my mouth. 

For fun, let's go through some typical answers you might give to "what do you want out of a job?
", and I'll neurotically rebut them all.

## I Love Autonomy At My Job

I've mentioned autonomy many times before in job interviews, and I think I was being sincere 
when I mentioned it. I don't know how I'd feel if I were ever at a job where I wasn't granted 
some level of autonomy. At every developer job, I've been forced to use my brain to solve 
problems, and the requirements were always nebulous enough that I could make suggestions that 
ended up making their way into deployed code.

Wait...if I've never felt that I lacked autonomy at a job, is autonomy something I should be 
looking for in the first place? 

And if you have complete autonomy at your job, does anyone care what you do? I mean, that kid 
over there playing "trucks" has complete autonomy over that sandbox, but no adult is going to 
hand him a web job because of it. Am I just as naive as that kid when I mention autonomy in the 
workplace?

When I think back on the jobs I've held over the last 8 years of being a web developer, the 
times when I had more autonomy were some of the worst periods for me as far as job satisfaction 
goes. If you are a one-person "R&D team" then you aren't that much different from the kid 
playing around in a sandbox. You might feel good while working, but at the end of the day when 
you look up, no one is left to cheer on whatever new prototype you are building.

So...ouch. The best answer I could think of for the entirety of my job searches is now failing 
my barometer test.

I think too much autonomy can be a bad thing since your coworkers should care about what 
everyone works on. More attention/scrutiny means less autonomy but in a good way that keeps you 
more integrated with the team vs. being a lone wolf.

...work towards asking questions about stakeholder engagement. That will let you know if people 
work together or if you'll be sent "tickets" to complete in isolation.

## I Want To Work For An Employer Who Cares About Open Source

I used to say this a lot too. I wanted to make sure...well ask at least...that the company I 
worked for invested in open source. I try to blog and help out with OSS when I can, but at this 
point, I can't say I really contribute to any one project.

But what does "10% time" amount to anyway, and if your company uses OSS and fixing code is part of your job, then the lines will blur. Plus, if a company does 
sponsor OSS, then you'll probably be working on those codebases vs. your own pet project.

...this falls into the category of benefits an employer can agree to ahead of time but is easy 
to dismiss once you start working. What if a project blows up? Are you really going to cry foul 
that your 10% time went away.
